IAF Human Management System
Overview
The IAF Human Management System is a comprehensive web application designed to manage personnel, training, deployments, medical histories, skill assessments, notifications, and reports within an Air Force context. It supports multiple roles including Commanders, HR Managers, Medical Officers, Training Department members, and Ground Staff, each with tailored dashboards and access controls.

Integration with OpenAI provides AI-generated insights for training management.

Features
Personnel Management: CRUD operations, profiles, and CSV import/export.

Training Management: Manage training sessions, track completion, upload documents.

Deployment Management: Track and manage deployments, location, and status.

Skill Assessment: Record and analyze skills and proficiency levels.

Medical Records: Upload and monitor medical history and impacts.

Notifications: Real-time alerts and mark-as-read capabilities.

Role-Based Dashboards: Custom views and analytics per role.

Multi-Factor Authentication: Google Authenticator integration.

Password Reset: Secure email OTP reset.

Reporting: Generate reports on personnel, training, attrition, and deployments.

OpenAI AI Integration: Generate overviews and insights on training sessions.

File Structure Highlights
index.php — Main entry and dashboard

login.php, logout.php, register.php — User authentication modules

dashboard.php — Role-specific dashboard content

profile.php, profile_analytics.php — User profile and activity logs

training_management.php — Manage training details with OpenAI integration

deployment_management.php — Deployment handling interface

skill_assessment.php — Skills recording and updates

admin.php — System administration panel

db.php — Database connection setup

database.sql — SQL schema for all tables

openai_api.php — OpenAI API integration function

config.php — Defines constants including API keys

openai_test.php — Basic OpenAI API test script

Setup Instructions
Database:

Create a MySQL database.

Import database.sql to create necessary tables.

Configure db.php with your database credentials.

API Key Configuration:

Insert your OpenAI API key in config.php:

php
define('OPENAI_API_KEY', 'your_openai_api_key_here');
File Permissions:

Ensure uploads/, and its subdirectories, have write permissions for document uploads.

Web Server Requirements:

PHP 7.4+ with cURL enabled.

MySQL or compatible database server.

SMTP configured for sending emails (password reset OTP).

Deploy:

Place application files on your web server.

Access index.php to start.

Usage Notes
Users register or are created by admin, assigned roles.

Multi-factor authentication is recommended for security.

OpenAI API enhances training management but requires internet and valid API key.

Email must be properly configured for password resets to work.

Use export/import features for bulk personnel data management.

Troubleshooting
Undefined openai_call function:

Confirm openai_api.php and config.php are included before usage.

File Upload Issues:

Confirm uploads/ directories exist and have correct permissions.

Email Sending Problems:

Verify SMTP server and credentials.

Database Errors:

Check your DB connection and schema import.

OpenAI API Failures:

Validate API key, monitor request quotas.

Security Features
Passwords hashed with PHP password_hash.

MFA via Google Authenticator.

Use of prepared statements for SQL.

File upload validations on mime-type and size.

Contact & Support
For support, updates, or issues, contact your system administrator or development team.

This system empowers the Air Force with unified personnel and operations management, enhanced by AI-driven analytics for improved decision-making.
